High in this video we're going to look at a slightly different take on decorating.
In particular we've been looking at decorating functions and we saw how we can create decorator functions.
We even saw how to decorate using classes by using the fact that classes can be callable here.
I want to do something slightly different.
I want to decorate a class as opposed to decorating a function.
We can do that.
But before we get to that I want to talk about something called Monkey patching Now now Python is a
dynamic language which means that we can actually modify things in objects and classes at runtime while
our code is executing.
We can go ahead and modify something that's been previously defined.
Now we can't do this.
Objects and classes that are in the built in Python for example anything that's written in C basically
we can do this too.
But anything think than in Python is fair game including our own classes but also a lot of the things
that are for example in the standard library such as let's say a fraction.
So I'm going to use that as an example.
So let's go ahead and say from fractions.
Important fractions.
And if I can type it.
And we've seen fractions before.
OK so we've dealt with it before you basically can say you know every cold's fraction that say two thirds
we can look at f dupped denominator ryot f dot numerator we have all these properties all these attributes
essentially that are on the fractioned class.
But one thing that it doesn't have for example is a speak method right which kind of makes sense because
while fractions shouldn't be able to speak.
But this is Python.
So let's go ahead and let's make fractions speak and we can do that very very simply.
All we need to do is to take the fraction class and specify dot speak and set it equal to something.
So now we are actually at runtime when this code is going to run.
It's going to create this speak attribute.
Now the speak attribute could just be let's say a value.
So now I could look at my fractioned that I just created and I could say speak and I get a 100 back.
OK.
So this is just an attribute but we can make this more interesting.
Let's go ahead and redefine speak again but this time I'm going to make it into a function so callable.
Now we're going to be creating essentially a fraction we're going to be creating an instance method.
So it needs that self parameter.
OK.
And we can also use that say an extra parameter as well.
So this.
Think of this as us creating an instance method.
So self is going to be basically receiving the instance that we're working with of the object and then
we have this extra parameter message.
And this is going to return something like Fraction and then whatever the message was.
OK so we'll format that message.
OK.
So now all fractioned class has a speak method and so we can use our old friend F here the lowercase
f which is a great name for a variable and we can tell it to squeak now and we can say this is a late
Carrick's on the square brackets.
And as you can see fractions now have that property.
I can go ahead and create a new Fraction let's say F two equals fraction ten fifths K and I can say
F two adults speak and say this is all this parrot is no more and we can see that.
Now we have this as well.
So this is how we can add attributes dynamically at runtime.
And this is called monkey patching.
So if you think about this we can really use this to essentially modify classes from outside while our
code is running.
Now this is pretty stupid example but let's say you wanted something maybe a little bit more interesting.
The freshman class and maybe you want to know if the fraction is an integral number and there is no
method in the fraction class to do that.
But it's something that you use all the time and you could certainly write a function outside of the
fraction class to do it.
But if you wanted to you could also monkey patch the fraction class and add in that thing is a property.
So I saw as a method as an instance method.
Let's go ahead a monkey patch it with an integral method.
So we're going to say fraction doffed is integral.
Now that's going to be a lambda that's going to be a function that takes in the single argument which
is going to be the object that we're using.
And how do we know if a number is integral.
Well refractions It's very simple we just need to check the denominator that's equal to 1.
We have an integral number.
It will never have a denominator of 0 because that means that the numerator will be 0.
The denominator will never be zero.
We can't have a fraction of 0 in the denominator so we don't need to worry about that case.
So all we're going to need to do is to return and to check if self datt denominator you nominate total
equals 1.
That's all we need to check if a fraction is an integral number.
So let's go ahead and create two fractions let's say f one is two thirds.
So that's obviously not integral.
And let's say that we have an ordinal 64 comma 8 and that is an integral number.
So if we look at F 1 it's two thirds f two that's eight ones.
Right.
So it's 8.
So now we can also just say f one dot is integral and we get false because yeah that's the case and
then is integral and we get true.
So here you can see we monkey patched all fraction class with something a little bit more interesting
with this is integral method.
Now let's actually monkey patch this class.
But instead of writing this directly this way let's use a function that we can call that will decorate
the fraction that will decorate that will modify that will monkey patch the fraction class.
OK.
So let's go ahead and let's call it decorate and let's say decorate integral.
Well let's do decorate speak right.
Fraction class right now already has that is integral method.
Let's put back that silly example that would speak.
So we're going to pass in a class to this function.
And we're going to implement now the speak method in that class.
So how do we go about doing that.
Well it's the same as before we just say class thought speak equals lambda self Khama message and we'll
just return class says.
Now actually let's do this let's say something like that that says one.
And if we're going to format it with self DOPs Dunder class that's going to be the class of self Dondre
name that's going to be the name.
OK.
And then we're also going to then put in our message.
And what we're going to do here we don't really have to do it.
I'm going to return the class as well.
We really don't have to because we've modified this object right.
So we've mutated the class object we don't need to return it.
I just want to return it just so that it starts looking familiar in terms of decorators.
Because now here's what I can do.
I can say fraction fraction equals fraction K equals sorry Dec.
Speak fraction.
Now hopefully this is reminding you of decorator's k.
So there we go.
Now technically I didn't have to return fraction.
I can just call decks speak on fraction on mutating the fractioned class here I'm just returning it
so I can show you this kind of syntax over here.
OK so now what can we do.
Well now we can say arm with decorated the fraction class essentially.
Right so we can create a fraction fraction two thirds OK and we can say f one got speak and we can say
you know Hello.
Let's just do something simple and so we get fractions says hello.
Now I could do this with other classes as well.
If I have my own custom class let's say I have a class for them and I'm not going to have that class
do anything just want to create a class.
I could decorate it.
I could save both.
Person equals DEC speak Paulson.
And not if I say p equals an instance of Coalson.
I can say Speak OK and I can say you know this walks and I say I get that.
Paulson says this works.
This is why use that self under-class done the name I wanted to get the name of the class of this object.
So this is kind of the approach we're going to take to decorating classes and those are some pretty
useful use cases for doing that as a first example.
Let's see how we might add some debugging info to our classes to all objects.
We want to be able to let's say we're creating objects in our code and for debugging purposes we want
to be able to write out some debug info about that entire object.
I'm going to do it here to the stand it out.
But you could do it to logfile you could write it to a database or whatever you want.
So in this case let's just do it.
And keep it pretty simple.
So from day time I'm going to import date time and time zone because I want to use UTC times I want
to log the time at which we've created the debug information for the object.
So let's go ahead and see how we might do this.
So let's go ahead and write to decorate it so debug info is going to take a class and it's going to
do something to the class that's going to say class.
DOD debug it equals and now want to make it some function right.
I'm going to create a method essentially on the class that gets passed in.
So let's say that the function name is called info.
I need to define that function somewhere.
I can't use a lambda.
I want something that's more complicated or more complex than a lambda expression.
So what I'm going to do here is I'm going to create my info function right in here and it's going to
take an object.
OK now I'm calling itself.
But really I don't have to it's just taking any object so let's call it will be.
And once I've defined the function I will then a sign that function to the debug method.
OK so you have to realize that this function is something that's going to have to receive that self.
Right because just as we did here when we created our speak it was Alamdar that took self right just
as we had initially as well because we need to remember that this is going to be an instance method.
So the first argument that that method needs to receive will receive is the instance of the class is
the object.
So I called it here RBJ.
But in reality if you think about if you were writing this directly in the class you would have info's
self right.
So think about this function here simply as the function.
I would be writing inside the class if I was writing my own class.
In this case I'm outside of the class.
I'm going to add it dynamically.
So let's go ahead and do that.
I'm going to create basically a list so I'm going to create a list of results and I'm going to append
a few things.
One is I'm going to spend the time at which we are writing this information out.
So very simple.
Date time.
Now the thing is I want the time zone to be in UTC but I have to worry about locales then.
Let's go ahead and append the memory address.
So let's say that the ID of this object and we'll just print out the hex so we'll do the hex off of
the ID of self.
Right because this is what the object we're looking at is in the variable self.
I also want the class that this thing is.
So let me go ahead and put it here.
Let's say it results that append and I want the class and we saw how to do that just now to get the
class so we're going to format and we're going to take self under-class Dondre name can.
So that will tell us the class that we're looking at.
We have the ID and then let's take all the variables all the attributes the properties really that we
have in this object and print the values out.
So we're going to do this for key and value in advance so we can use this function as built in function
called vals which will return all the properties of that object self and will look at the items because
I want both the key and the value and then we'll just say results not append and we'll put that will
string a FI that whole thing this way.
OK so we'll get string representations for the keys which are just going to be named.
There'll be strings already but then will also get string representations of the value whatever that
value is and then will return the results.
So that's what the function is.
Now be careful this is not a closure.
There are no free variables in this case so I could have defined this function outside of debug info
but because it's so closely tied to debug info I'm just nesting it inside.
But you don't have to.
It can be outside.
There is no closure going on here so don't get confused with that.
So we've created this function and now I'm going to go ahead and do that now.
In fact writing this outside would be more efficient.
OK.
Think about why every time.
This is inside every time I call debug info.
It's going to essentially recreate this function and that's needless.
I don't need it so the only reason I keep it in here is because when I'm working on code like this and
Jupiter notebooks you know I may be copying and pasting things around.
And so so that I don't forget to do something I'll put it together like sometimes I'll do imports there
as well.
Not something I would do in production code but just here the Jupiter notebooks it kind of helps me
but I'll keep it out.
You don't have to and it's preferable to keep it out because we don't want to recreate that function
every time.
It doesn't need to be recreated every time.
You'll notice what's happening here is that I'm not returning the class.
So let's keep that consistent as if we were writing a decorator and I'll return the class as well.
OK so now let's go ahead and use that.
Let's create our own class.
That's a class person.
And in this case I actually want to have some properties so let's say name and birth year.
And I'll just self-taught name calls name and self dobbed both equals both.
Yeah.
And then I also have a method let's say say hi.
And I will just say return Hello there.
OK.
So something kind of pretty stupid.
But here's a very simple person class.
Now we can decorate it.
Doing this person equals debug info of course and we saw we've seen how to do that.
But remember this is a long form of a slightly shortened possibility which was the decorator syntax.
So let's go ahead and decorate our class this way.
So you'll notice I have a decorator syntax here that's short you know decorator syntax with the at symbol
and then I have my own class over here.
So now I'm my person class has been decorated and in this case I don't.
Again the return class is not technically necessary.
I'm just doing it so I could use the long form to show you that it looks similar.
So let's go ahead and make sure this works.
Let's go ahead and create a person and let's say the person's name is John and John was born in 1939.
I'm sure you can find out and figure out which John I'm talking about here.
OK.
So now I can say John P. de-bug and I get my debug information.
It's a class pulser.
This is the memory address.
This is the name and the value of name.
This is the both the property and the value of the both here.
So now let's go ahead and let's say that I do not have this over here.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to pull back and I'm going to delete course of OK.
So I want to make sure all that goes away and I'm going to delete P as well make sure I don't have them
you know hanging references Well I have to take that out.
OK.
So I've cleaned up and I just want to see if this works if I don't return the class because remember
I'm mutating the class so I don't technically need to return it.
Let's see what happens if I try now for the same thing as before.
So I'm going to say debug info and class person.
I probably shouldn't have deleted that code.
Let's just do a single property here just to keep it short.
I'm not going to do a method as well.
And now let's say I want to create a new person and I get that the nun type object is not callable.
Well what happens when you use this right.
Remember what it means.
It's doing this.
It's saying Palsson equals debug info.
I'll pass.
What is debug in for returning.
Even though I am modifying Pilson directly.
Right.
So if I wanted to really in this case because I'm not returning the class I can also just mutate this
Palsson class by calling debug info on it.
But if I want to use the decorator syntax what it's really doing in long form is this what is debugging
for returning now.
None.
So nothing is being returned right.
We're not returning explicitly therefore there's none returned and so personnel.
The Paulson class is now none.
All right.
And so this is why it tells us that the Nunn type is not callable.
I tried to call my Paulson class.
So technically you don't need to return the class but if you're going to use the Shaab decorator syntax
then you have to do that right.
And now that will work.
And the long form will work to.
And because I need to pass in the name let's say John.
OK.
And now we have the debug info.
And the person object has no attributes.
Debug info.
Why I thought I ran that let's do that again.
And it's got no.
All because Nakul debug info it's called debug.
Right.
OK.
Now the thing is that this decorated here will work for other classes too.
That's one of the key kind of points of decorators that they need to be general you know general enough
that they can apply to other classes.
Yes I could write a decorator to monkey past the fraction class to test if is integral but this will
only walk on classes which have you know a representation of numbers using a numerator and denominator
because I need to check to see if the denominator is equal to 1.
So Munky about using you know a decorator to monkey patch the fraction class with an integral function
doesn't make much sense.
It's non-reusable so we wouldn't do it that way would do it this way.
Right if we really wanted to monkey patch the fractions class would do it that way.
So in general of decorator's we're looking for something that's going to be reusable.
So decorator can be reused with other classes as well.
Let's go ahead and let me create a new class and I'm going to decorate it using debug info as well.
And I'm going to create this class and let's call it automobile auto mode play a label and let's say
that it's going to have a few properties that say we have the make we have the model we have the year
and we have the top speed.
OK.
Let's say we have these things.
So we're going to say self-taught make people make self-drive model equals model self-doubting year
equals year type and self-taught top speed equals top speed.
And the other thing too that I want is I want to use current speed property.
So I'm going to do this using a private variable.
Again we have no such thing as private variables refer back to if you don't know about that.
I did talk about that in the video on classes right in the beginning when I kind of do a quick refresher.
So I go back and take a look at that if you're unsure.
So I'm just marking this as a private pseudo private variable and currently the speed is going to be
zero.
So these are my instance properties.
Now I'm going to go ahead and create a speed property which is going to be a property that I can set
and get and I could certainly do it this way.
I could just say self-doubt speed and then let the person change it with self.
You know with object speed equals something but here what I want to do is I want to make sure that the
speed cannot exceed the top speed.
So I'm going to write this now that if we're using getters and setters so I'm going to use a decorator.
So you'll notice I'm decorating now a function and the function is really a method.
It's going to be an instance method.
So it's going to get the object as its first argument and I'm decorating this.
Using the built in decorator property and again I mention that in that video on classes.
So what am I going to do here.
I'm just going to return self-taught
underscores speed.
So here let me go back.
Make sure I'm doing it this way.
OK so I'm going to return that and then I'm going to set the setter for the speed
using another instance method.
And so what do I want to do here.
Well I want to check that the new speed is great you know is less than the top speed.
So if I'm trying to go faster than my top speed I should raise an error.
So here I'm just going to raise a value error and say speed cannot exceed the top speed.
OK something like that.
Otherwise I will set the speed.
I would say self speed equals speed.
So that's the only reason I created you know and I use getters and setters to have a speed property
instead of just using a bare property like here.
If you come from a Java world.
You'd probably be horrified at how I'm doing this year.
If you are go back to my very own classes and take a look at that.
If you're not already aware of why this is perfectly OK to do in Python these bare properties over here.
OK.
So I got my automobile class.
I can create a new automobile.
I can say favorite
equals.
We're going to make an automobile instance and let's say it's a Ford.
It's a model T.
It was built in 1908 and a top speed of 45 mph.
OK.
So now I've got my automobile right now there's other things I should do to that class and so on.
I'm not going to get into the string and the representations and all that stuff.
But for now if I want to print all the debug info that's very easy I just say favorites debug because
remember I decorated it using my debug info and so there we go.
I've got my debug information.
Now you'll notice my private variable shows up right.
Because that speed is not a property.
These are property getters and setters what's the underlying property.
It's the underscore speed and we still have it here.
So we're still able to debug our class that way.
So now I can say favorite's dark speed.
He calls y if I try and set it to 100 I'm going to get a value error that you know the name Top speed
is not defined.
That's a different one.
Yes top speed is not the fun because these are instance variables.
So let's make sure that this is correct.
New speed.
OK so let's try that again.
And now we should get a value error that the speed cannot exceed the top speed.
And that's good.
So let's say we're driving at 40 miles per hour we're really pushing it.
And now I can go again and say favorite don't debug it.
And again I get now my debug information the time.
You know what the idea was and so on.
So this can be useful for many other classes than just you know one.
Hence why I wrote it as a decorator.
And obviously you know in practice you may choose to maybe parameterize it.
And so that will allow you to direct where the output is going to be does it go to the standard output
is it going to go into a file you know maybe you are using the logger database.
What happened.
So next I want to take a look at another use case where decorating classes can be really handy.
And let's go ahead and we're going to create a point class.
So point is really just you know a pair of values x and y whether you actually use a class to define
a point that kind of depends on what you're going to do right.
You can also use tuples.
And we'll get to that later in this course where we'll talk about tuples as records as data structures.
Here I'm just going to use a class.
And let's go ahead.
And the initialiser should take the x and y coordinates of the point so self that X equals x self-help
y y get them just using their properties
and let's say we want to get the absolute value.
So while I'm implementing these are done the ABS special method which means that I'll be able to call
the absolute function the built in absolute function ABS function on a point object.
Right.
So by implementing that and basically providing that functionality.
And how do we calculate it.
Well we're going to use that square root function that we imported and we're going to take self x square
and plus self-doubt Y squared.
OK.
That's how we're going to find the absolute value of a point.
Basically it's going to be the distance from the origin.
The next thing I want to do is to set up the representation.
So that's pretty straightforward.
We're going to say return point 0 1.
I could also use class name right.
The object self Dondre class under name.
I'm just going to use this instead I'm going to have code.
The class name for expediency.
OK so now we have that we can go ahead and create let's say three points I'm going to unpack a tuple.
My tuple is going to be created packed.
Basically on this side I'm going to point to another point that's going to be the same point and then
another point that's not the same.
OK.
So I got three different points but I can now of course call absolute of P1.
I can actually look at the representation of P1 and you'll notice that P1 is P2 is false.
And then obviously P2 is P3 is false as well and so is P1 P1 is not P3.
However what about P1 equal to P2.
Right.
And that's the point I want to make here.
Well at this point and this point all the same.
Right.
But I get false.
Well that's because I need to implement the Dunder EQM method again.
This is something I've mentioned in that short video that I had on classes right in the beginning when
I did a recap.
So what we need to do because by default we haven't implemented equality so Python doesn't know how
it should handle equality for our class.
So what does it default to using the memory address.
It's got a different memory address because we saw P is not true.
So therefore one equals equals two by default will be false.
So we can fix that.
OK we can fix that by going in.
And let me just copy paste and let's go ahead and define the equals method and equals we'll have self
and others.
And all I'm going to do here is basically say OK if it is instance other off point game.
So if I have it my other that I'm comparing to is an instance of point then how do I know if they're
equal.
Well I'm going to return self-taught X equals equals other Daltex and self-taught y equals equals other
Y.
That's how I'm going to consider two points to be equal if they have the same x and y coordinates.
OK.
Else what am I going to do.
I'm going to return false.
OK I'm going to say hey two things you don't appoint point can't compare equal to anything other than
a point or it or a subclass of the point.
OK.
So now I have that let me go ahead and redefine so I'll just copy paste this.
Let's go ahead and redefine this.
And now P1 P2 you'll notice is false.
But p one equals equals P2 is true because they have the same coordinates.
So we implemented the equals method.
Now we want to go ahead and also implement some kind of ordering on the point.
So let's go ahead.
Because right now if we try this one is less than P2 we get that you know less than is not supported.
How do we get that functionality in.
Well again pretty straightforward.
So you delete all this stuff and let's go ahead and implement another special method called LTE and
LTE works very similar in concept.
We're going to basically provide functionality for the less than operator which also takes two arguments
right.
It has the object that we're comparing with the other object that we're comparing it to.
So this will be the left hand side of the less than sign.
This will be the right hand side of the less than sign.
So how do we go ahead and do that.
Well let's go ahead and implement that.
We're going to test again if it's an instance of other point.
OK we want to make sure that we're only comparing those two things and here how am I going to order
points.
I'm going to order points based on how far they are from the origin.
So here I'm just going to return the absolute of self less than the absolute of other and I know that
an absolute is defined four points K and if it's not then I'm going to return the not implemented value
saying hey this was the All we can compare point to something else.
So now we have this point class again we can redefine those things.
We still have p one equals two right.
That's true.
What about p 1 or p 3.
Less than 1 that should be true because 0 0 is closer to the origin than that.
And as you can see that works and in fact now if we try let's say P4 equals point.
Let's take something really from the origin and let's make sure that you know P for less than p 1 is
false.
Yeah that's right.
Now what about the opposite is P1 greater than before all these p for greater than p 1.
Now we then define greater than k but that works.
Why.
Well because when Python looked at this it tried to see let me see if there's a greater then.
And you know implemented for this point before it looked we didn't find a greater then.
So instead it said well it's the same thing as doing one less than before.
So it kind of did a reflection on that inequality.
And therefore it ran this in order to get this in general.
You know that's fine.
Usually our you know we have this kind of reflexivity I guess in our wrong comparison operators.
But if you don't want that then you'd have to implement the greater then.
OK.
What about P1 less than or equal to P4.
Wow.
OK.
It's not supported.
Right.
We have a less than we have an equals that doesn't work.
Python isn't going to magically throw that in for us.
So instead we're going to have to define you know define less than or equal to K self-tanner other.
And I'll just pass that then we're going to have to define greater than K might as well defined that
one.
Okay.
And then we'd probably have to define greater than or equal to K and we have that one.
And let's pass that.
And then we probably also have to define not equals.
We are to complete that whole series.
So we have 1 2 3 4 5 6 things that we have to implement right beyond just those with needed for more.
Beyond the first two that we did so I'm going to delete all of this because if you think about it once
you have less then how would you find out if something is less than or equal to while you check to see
is it less than or equal.
All right.
How would I find out if it's greater then.
Well if it's greater then that means it's not less than a week or two.
Right.
Or greater then means it's not less then but possibly and not equal either.
So you can always build every one of those using those two over here.
And you can build it in the same way it's a very consistent way of doing it.
So what does that mean.
Well how about using a decorator to given the fact that we've implemented each cue in LTE.
It will go ahead and create the rest of those things and inject them basically monkey patch our class
with the you know the full ordering operators the remaining Oldring operators.
So here we're going to do a very simple assumption or simplifying assumption.
We're going to assume that LTE has been defined and AQ has been defined.
What you may want to start with one of the other inequalities and then build the other ones from that
one.
You can always do that.
You can take any one of the less than greater than less than or equal to greater than or equal to one
of those and build the remaining three out from that.
So let's go ahead and do that because this means that every time we implement you know ordering we can
put the full ordering on a class by just decorating.
And that's a pretty useful way of using decorators class decorators.
So let me show you let me just print this out.
Put this out copy paste that from my notes and that's of course in the notebook that you can download
in the Jupiter notebook.
So you'll see that we can define less than or equal to you know if it is less than B or is equal to
B is greater than B if we do not have a less than B and is not equal to B and then a is greater than
or equal to B if A is not less than be fine.
So this is how we can build the remaining three comparison operators by just using the less than.
And then the equality because this a not equal be just the same thing as not a equals equals B.
OK.
So let's go ahead and write a decorator that's going to do that.
So let's call it complete ordering and I'm going to keep this pretty simple.
There's a lot more of kind of code that should go into here for type checking and that kind of stuff.
I'm going to keep it pretty straightforward.
I'm not going to do all that so first is I'm going to at least make sure that the equality is in my
class.
So I'm going to test it this way.
And I also want to make sure that less then is also in my class.
In other words I can't complete the ordering if I don't have the equals in the less them.
So this is why I was saying I'm making the assumption that we have less then and then what I want to
do.
Well I want to monkey patch these now monkey patching these these methods is safe to do but some but
very often you shouldn't be monkey patching and monkeying around with these donder the special methods
because of the way Python calls them.
Right.
So in this case though it's safe to do.
But in general you want to try and stay away from doing things like that.
And the only reason I'm doing it this way and why I'm saying it's safe to do is because Python itself
does that.
And I'll show you where in a little while.
So let's go ahead and that's Krater lambda.
So again the Lamda remember we're just creating these instance methods so Thors argument is the object
that we're using.
And then the second argument is the other object that we're comparing to.
Right.
This is not for the less than or equal to.
So here we want that self is less than others.
All self is equal to others.
And we know we can use less than and equals because we check to make sure we could care.
Now technically in here I should be writing things so that I have you know I'm looking at the types
and if it's not the same type then I should be you know really you know returning that not implemented
value and things like that.
I'm just going to keep it simple here because I'm actually not going to end up using this particular
decorator's.
But I want to show you how we would go about building it if we were to build it ourselves.
All right.
So for greater then well greater than if it's not less than so not self less than other k and not self
equal to other k.
So again and this is class with a single s.
We just use the second rule here.
And then the last one that we need to monkey patch is the greater than equal to.
So G.
And again lammed self cannot other.
And how we're going to do that if it's not a self is less than obvious.
And then we're going to return the class.
Remember we're returning the class even though we're actually modifying we're mutating the class we
don't need to return it.
We're returning though because we want to use the decorator syntax.
So that's it.
Right.
So not a good implementation.
Don't don't think this is good.
Python code.
There's lots of stuff missing but it will prove the point of what we want to do get so.
And in the notes I will show you how you could actually improve on this.
I would actually bust each one of those out as a separate function and then assign it.
And you can see that in the Jupiter notebook but I'm not going to spend time on the video to do that.
So now let's go ahead and let's go back to our point class.
So I'm going to take this code copy it and I'm going to paste that down here.
And now I'm going to decorate it using complete ordering like so.
OK.
And now I've decorated this point class.
So let me go ahead and pick all this stuff up again.
And we'll add in the fourth point Soval unpack and we'll pack.
OK.
So we've got four points and you'll notice now that I have P1 is less than or equal to P4 that exists
right p 1 or P for greater than or equal to 2.
That works as well.
So now we have all our drawings done and you'll notice that we didn't have to create the orderings in
here.
What happened is that the complete ordering did it for us.
We even have one not or we are not equal to two.
That would be false because P1 is equal to Peter.
OK.
So you'll notice that basically the decorator allowed us to complete the ordering.
By only having equals and less then.
But as I mentioned before we could maybe start with greater than not less then and then we need to complete
the ordering well.
That means that this isn't going to work properly.
So it's actually gets a lot more complicated than that.
And in fact because of that there is actually something available in the standard library that will
do it for us.
So let's go ahead and see what that is.
From phunk tools import total folder and so this is the decorator it's in the frontals module and it's
called total ordering.
So all I need to do is basically do this I'm going to copy paste but I'm not going to use complete ordering.
I'm going to use total ordering.
OK so I'm going to use the one from the standard library.
Now what's interesting about the one from the standard library is that as long as you have one of the
comparisons you can have less than greater than less than or equal to greater than or equal two it doesn't
matter.
It will fill out the rest so it will figure out which ones are missing and fill out the rest.
So let's go ahead and test it with you know just having P1 and or just having the less then defined.
And let's go ahead.
And I'm just going to copy paste this again.
And there we go.
OK.
So now I've got these points.
Now I can have one less than or equal to two.
That's true.
Because it is equal to p to be one less than a week or two for this Dupee one greater then we will take
folder's to show that the greater than or equal to is there as well and so on.
So the built in the standard library built in total ordering does what I was showing you before and
were trying to write it ourselves as just a little bit more complicated than what we did.
And the reason why I didn't spend much time on it is because we've got to really build 10.
I just wanted to show you how you might go about building something like that.
And just to prove the last point that we can build this using any of the arm operators Let's go ahead
and set an implement greater then.
So here what are we going to want to change this to greater than.
OK so now we have this implemented and again I'm going to copy paste these.
And we have greater then defined soapie one or for greater than one well we know that we define that
function.
But I could say P2 less than equal to p 3 which would be false as well.
And you'll notice it was implemented and it was it did the calculation correctly.
So that's the total ordering built in.
Decorator was built in it's in the standard library.
When I say built in or just means that it comes with Python when you install it but it's part of the
standard library it's not written in C..
In fact it's written in Python.
Right.
A lot of the standard library is written in Python.
And let me actually show you how you might look at that code.
Ok so here's where I imported from tools or total ordering from font tools.
OK.
And then I just had that class point that we're talking about before I you know implemented the less
than using the same idea that we had.
But what I want to show you here and I'm running this inside of Python.
So what I can do in Python I can actually go to total ordering I can highlight it right click and say
go to declaration and it takes me to where this takes me to the code the Python code where this decorator
is implemented.
And so I can see that it's doing a bunch of stuff right.
It's finding the roots if not roots.
And you'll notice here it's actually monkey patching.
This is where it's monkey patching it's using a set attribute.
We'll get to that later on in the schools.
But essentially it's monkey patching.
And here's where the whole implementation is.
So it's Stout's little further up there we go.
Total ordering class decorator.
So if you want to see how this decorator actually implemented and the ideas are exactly what we've had
before.
Right.
So it's really very similar to what we've done.
It's just fleshed out with proper error handling and things like that.
So you can take a look at the standard library methods and all the implementations and see how they're
done you know same thing for example here I just type this line in I'm not actually using it but I can
go and see how the fraction is implemented because fractured is not a builtin fraction is a standard
library.
And here's my class.
Fraction OK.
And you can see how the fraction class is implemented in Python.
So lots of really good code that you can see in all those libraries to see how certain things are actually
built.
If you want.
When it comes to the built ins you know like lists and dictionaries then you don't you're not going
to get that because they're not written in Python.
But certainly for the standard library a lot of the standard library modules are written in Python and
it's really great that you can do.
And you know check out the code that's in there.
All right.
So that's how we can decorate.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in a bit.